README.md, before:

# JDN-Chunk Document Processor

A document processing system that extracts text content from various file formats and generates embeddings for further analysis.

## Overview

This project provides a robust document processing system that:

1. Recursively scans a directory for documents (PDF, DOCX) and images
2. Extracts text content using MarkItDown
3. Generates embeddings using Ollama
4. Saves results as markdown and embedding files
5. Uploads markdown files to an API endpoint
6. Implements a restart mechanism to continue processing where it left off

The system is designed following SOLID principles, making it easy to extend and maintain.

## Features

- **Document Extraction**: Extract text from PDFs, DOCX files, and images
- **Embeddings Generation**: Create embeddings using Ollama's models
- **API Integration**: Upload processed markdown files to an API endpoint
- **Restart Capability**: Resume processing from where it left off
- **Extensible Architecture**: Easily add support for new file types or processing methods
- **Error Handling**: Gracefully handles processing errors and saves error information

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11
- MarkItDown library
- Ollama (optional, for embeddings generation)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd jdn-chunk
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
   ```
   uv add 'markitdown[all]' ollama
   ```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Process all documents in the `docs` directory:

```bash
python main.py
```

### Advanced Options

```bash
python main.py --input-dir docs --output-dir output --enable-plugins --embedding-model "nomic-embed-text"
```

Options:
- `--input-dir`: Directory containing documents to process (default: "docs")
- `--output-dir`: Directory to save output files (default: "output")
- `--enable-plugins`: Enable MarkItDown plugins
- `--embedding-model`: Ollama model to use for embeddings (default: "nomic-embed-text")
- `--api-url`: API URL for uploading files (default: "http://localhost:3000")
- `--api-token`: API token for authentication
- `--skip-upload`: Skip uploading files to API

## Architecture

The project follows SOLID principles with a clean, modular architecture:

### Interfaces and Implementations

- **FileFinder**: Interface for finding files
  - **ExtensionBasedFileFinder**: Implementation that finds files based on extensions

- **DocumentProcessor**: Interface for processing documents
  - **MarkItDownProcessor**: Implementation using MarkItDown

- **EmbeddingGenerator**: Interface for generating embeddings
  - **OllamaEmbeddingGenerator**: Implementation using Ollama
  - **NullEmbeddingGenerator**: Null implementation when embeddings aren't needed
  
- **FileUploader**: Interface for uploading files to external services
  - **ApiFileUploader**: Implementation using HTTP requests
  - **NullFileUploader**: Null implementation when file uploading isn't needed

- **DocumentProcessingService**: Service that orchestrates the process

### File Formats

- **Markdown (.md)**: Contains the extracted text content
- **JSON (.json)**: Human-readable version of embeddings with metadata
- **Progress (.json)**: Tracks processing progress for restart capability
- **Upload Results (.json)**: Tracks file upload results and statuses

## Development

### Adding New File Types

Extend the `ExtensionBasedFileFinder` by adding new extensions to the set:

```python
extensions = {
    "pdf", "docx",  # Documents
    "png", "jpg", "jpeg",  # Images
    "new_extension"  # Your new extension
}
```

### Implementing New Processing Methods

1. Create a new implementation of the `DocumentProcessor` interface
2. Pass it to the `DocumentProcessingService`

### Adding New Embedding Models

1. Modify the `OllamaEmbeddingGenerator` to use different models
2. Or create a new implementation of the `EmbeddingGenerator` interface

### Implementing New Upload Destinations

1. Create a new implementation of the `FileUploader` interface
2. Pass it to the `DocumentProcessingService`

Commit message:

Enhance document processing to support parallel file processing and add command line options for batch size and max workers

README.md, after:

# JDN-Chunk Document Processor

A document processing system that extracts text content from various file formats and generates embeddings for further analysis.

## Overview

This project provides a robust document processing system that:

1. Recursively scans a directory for documents (PDF, DOCX) and images
2. Extracts text content using MarkItDown
3. Generates embeddings using Ollama
4. Saves results as markdown and embedding files
5. Uploads markdown files to an API endpoint
6. Processes files in parallel batches for improved performance
7. Implements a restart mechanism to continue processing where it left off

The system is designed following SOLID principles, making it easy to extend and maintain.

## Features

- **Document Extraction**: Extract text from PDFs, DOCX files, and images
- **Embeddings Generation**: Create embeddings using Ollama's models
- **API Integration**: Upload processed markdown files to an API endpoint
- **Parallel Processing**: Process files in parallel batches for improved performance
- **Restart Capability**: Resume processing from where it left off
- **Extensible Architecture**: Easily add support for new file types or processing methods
- **Error Handling**: Gracefully handles processing errors and saves error information

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.11
- MarkItDown library
- Ollama (optional, for embeddings generation)

### Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd jdn-chunk
   ```

2. Install the required dependencies:
   ```
   uv add 'markitdown[all]' ollama
   ```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

Process all documents in the `docs` directory:

```bash
python main.py
```

### Advanced Options

```bash
python main.py --input-dir docs --output-dir output --enable-plugins --embedding-model "nomic-embed-text"
```

Options:
- `--input-dir`: Directory containing documents to process (default: "docs")
- `--output-dir`: Directory to save output files (default: "output")
- `--enable-plugins`: Enable MarkItDown plugins
- `--embedding-model`: Ollama model to use for embeddings (default: "nomic-embed-text")
- `--api-url`: API URL for uploading files (default: "http://localhost:3000")
- `--api-token`: API token for authentication
- `--skip-upload`: Skip uploading files to API
- `--batch-size`: Number of files to process in parallel (default: 10)
- `--max-workers`: Maximum number of worker threads (default: auto)

## Architecture

The project follows SOLID principles with a clean, modular architecture:

### Interfaces and Implementations

- **FileFinder**: Interface for finding files
  - **ExtensionBasedFileFinder**: Implementation that finds files based on extensions

- **DocumentProcessor**: Interface for processing documents
  - **MarkItDownProcessor**: Implementation using MarkItDown

- **EmbeddingGenerator**: Interface for generating embeddings
  - **OllamaEmbeddingGenerator**: Implementation using Ollama
  - **NullEmbeddingGenerator**: Null implementation when embeddings aren't needed
  
- **FileUploader**: Interface for uploading files to external services
  - **ApiFileUploader**: Implementation using HTTP requests
  - **NullFileUploader**: Null implementation when file uploading isn't needed

- **DocumentProcessingService**: Service that orchestrates the process

### File Formats

- **Markdown (.md)**: Contains the extracted text content
- **JSON (.json)**: Human-readable version of embeddings with metadata
- **Progress (.json)**: Tracks processing progress for restart capability
- **Upload Results (.json)**: Tracks file upload results and statuses

## Development

### Adding New File Types

Extend the `ExtensionBasedFileFinder` by adding new extensions to the set:

```python
extensions = {
    "pdf", "docx",  # Documents
    "png", "jpg", "jpeg",  # Images
    "new_extension"  # Your new extension
}
```

### Implementing New Processing Methods

1. Create a new implementation of the `DocumentProcessor` interface
2. Pass it to the `DocumentProcessingService`

### Adding New Embedding Models

1. Modify the `OllamaEmbeddingGenerator` to use different models
2. Or create a new implementation of the `EmbeddingGenerator` interface

### Implementing New Upload Destinations

1. Create a new implementation of the `FileUploader` interface
2. Pass it to the `DocumentProcessingService`
